# The Magic Object and Authority Pattern


## The Simplest Grant

You can put a special object into the request context that certain annotations can understand. 

The following addition...
```
context.add(Grant.authorized())
```
...will allow that request to access any route annotated by the following:
```
@RequireAuthorized
```

A request without the Grant object will denied access. 

The above is the simplest form of authorization. It's a simple boolean flag.



## Authority Pattern

This is simply a request preprocessor that specializes in issuing grants to incoming requests.

## Other Types of Grants

### Clearence Grant

Clearence grants work the same way as security clearences. For example, if a request has a clearence level of 2, it can access any route that requires a clearence of 2 or more. 
```
context.add(Grant.clearence(2))
```
Can access an endpoint annotated like so...
```
@RequireClearence(level = 2)
```
But can NOT access an endpoint annoted with:
```
@RequireClearence(level = 3)
```
We can use this type of grant for heirarchical access.

```
public class Role {
    public static final int GUEST = 1;
    public static final int USER = 2;
    public static final int MOD = 3;
    public static final int ADMIN = 4;
    public static final int SUPERUSER = 5;
}
```

### Scoped Grant

Scoped grants allow access to specific features by name. 

```
Grant.scopes("post:view", "post:create", "post:edit");
```

Scoped grants must have all scopes required by an endpoint to access it. For example, the above grant can access an endpoint annotated like so:

```
@RequireScopes("post:view")
```

But it cannot access an endpoint annotated like so:

```
@RequireScopes("post:view", "post:delete")
```

### Denied Grant

This is a Grant that can never meet any requirements specified by any of these annotations:

```
@RequireAuthorized
@RequireClearence
@RequireScopes
```

It is more secure than simply skipping the addition of a Grant object because it consumes the slot reserved for Grants in the request context. Thus, it locks the request down explicitly and irrevocably. 

It can be added like so:

```
context.add(Grant.deny());
```

## Grant Types are Independent

Just because a request is authorized does not mean it has a clearence or some scopes.
Just because a request has a certain clearence does not mean it is authorized or has a scope.
Just because a request has some particular scopes does not mean it is authorized or has a clearence.

Just because a request has a Grant does not mean that it contains a certificate!